# 2021-08-26 AW

Treat this as a background reference and a collection of proposed work items.

## Background

Large-scale applications undergo compartmentalization over time to improve the maintainability of the codebase as well as improving performance characteristics under a dynamic volume of information throughput.

With microservices, the use of messaging middleware like RabbitMQ and Kafka facilitate the horizontal scaling of application components with dynamic utilization patterns.

With IoT, MQTT is frequently used to create a buffer for inbound messages from devices, allowing the message processing components to scale more gracefully as the volume of messages changes over time.

## What’s the problem?

Trust in the integrity of information in distributed, message-oriented applications is very often based on the presumed trustworthiness of the messaging middleware. For instance, an application which manages a storm water pumping system may rely on many distributed sensors, which use a SaaS message broker to deliver telemetry to a machine learning (ML) application. The application architect may put a strong focus on managing granular authentication and authorization for the message broker component, and trust that any messages delivered by the message broker are unaltered and attributed to the correct identity.

This design makes the messaging middleware a high-value target for a malicious actor wishing to impersonate application participants. If the middleware can be compromised, any device that is expected to use the broker for transmitting telemetry messages can be impersonated. This pattern makes the detection and remediation of application abuse quite difficult. The impact of an ML algorithm with falsified input, used for managing critical infrastructure, can be disastrous. The use of a SaaS message broker platform across many critical infrastructure applications further increases the potential impact through compromised middleware.

Enabling the message consuming/processing components to determine the identity of a message sender in a distributed application is challenging. The only mechanism for achieving sender nonrepudiation is the use of asymmetric cryptography for proving sender identity. This is commonly done using digital certificates, and the infrastructure (Public Key Infrastructure or PKI: ref: <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public_key_infrastructure>) required for supporting this sort of cryptographic identity creates significant implementation work and ongoing maintenance costs. (related: <https://www.hivemq.com/blog/mqtt-security-fundamentals-mqtt-message-data-integrity/>)

PKI lacks a universal discovery mechanism, and this is one of the biggest barriers to adoption for certificate-based device identities in distributed applications.

PKI also lacks a universal namespace. Entity names are only guaranteed to be unique within the same PKI. An application needing to use multiple PKI for establishing identity has no way to prevent other PKIs from using the exact same names. Naming collisions across PKIs is a barrier to the use of multiple PKIs within the same application. Naming collisions can cause confusion when they happen by accident, and can be used maliciously for impersonation. To prevent impersonation and naming collisions, devices typically get an identity issued specifically for the application, and cannot utilize a supplier-issued PKI identity. This adds cost for device onboarding.

## The solution

DNS is the universal namespace of the internet. It provides a lookup mechanism for a variety of different types of information. Some DNS standards have emerged to enable the association of a DNS name with a public key. These standards provide a solution for the lack of a federated namespace for PKI and the absence of a universal discovery mechanism.

An authenticating middleware component can be used as a transitional piece of technology to offload message authentication, to provide a gentler adoption path for message-oriented security in a distributed application.

The scope of this capstone project includes the creation of authenticating middleware for MQTT. This is a system that will:

* Consume messages from an MQTT broker
* Use public keys retrieved via DNS to authenticate messages consumed from the public broker
* Publish authenticated messages using an integrated message broker. The MQTT topic names and the contents of the messages will be unchanged.

The application will be configured using environment variables and/or a yaml file which define:

* Parameters for authenticating with the inbound message broker as a subscriber
* Parameters for authenticating the outbound broker’s subscribers
* Which domains and identities are allowed:
  * DNS names
  * DNS wildcards

The authentication system will:

* Use TLSA records for public key lookup
* Support authentication of the DNS response using:
  * DNSSEC
  * PKIX-CD (<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-wilson-dane-pkix-cd/>)
  * Honor DNS TTL for expiring public keys out of local cache

The entire application will run in Docker, with the application defined using docker-compose.

## Proposed Deliverables

* Documentation for the application.
* The application itself.
* Your summary papers, etc...

## Tools we will use

* Github will be used for SCM and some async communication (meeting notes, etc)
* Github actions will be used for CI testing
* Pytest will be used for writing unit tests
* Readthedocs will be used for publishing documentation
* CodeClimate (OSS) for tracking test coverage and code quality

## Next steps

* [] Set up an organization in Github. This is where we will store software and documentation source.
* [] Distil all this information into a project plan, requirements doc, etc… and check these internal docs into a repo under the Github organization.
* [] Have questions ready for Ash ahead of the next meeting. 
